---
layout: post
category: encryption
title: "Mozilla Permits the Use of Multiple SHA-1 Certificates"
tagline: ""
tags : [vulnerability, exploit, encryption, SHA-1]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## TL;DR

Mozilla has recently made a controversial decision regarding the permitted use of SHA-1 certificates [1].

## Details

Mozilla, together with other organizations including Microsoft and Google, formally made the decision to deprecate support for SHA-1 certificates after the results of a research project were released [2] wherein the discovery was made that the SHA-1 encryption algorithm may be compromised using significantly fewer resources (both monetary and temporal) than previously hypothesized (10 days and a 64-GPU cluster specifically).

The research project involved the application of a technique which facilitated a greater degree of efficiency during the discovery of cryptographic collisions [3]; the occurrence of a common hash generated by more than one message [4]. Cryptographic collisions facilitate Digital Signature based attacks [4] wherein a digital signature is obtained, using a non-malicious document, and subsequently integrated into a malicious document which yields the same hash code as the non-malicious document. Consequently, the malicious document will be accepted during processing due to lack of distinguishability between the expected, non-malicious document and the malicious document.

Mozilla has recently permitted an exception to the original decision to deprecate the use of SHA-1 certificates. Symantec has been permitted to issue 9 SHA-1 certificates in order to remedy issues being experienced by Worldpay PLC, a payment processing company. Some of the SSL/TLS powered servers operated by Worldpay were in need of new SHA-1 certificates, for which requests were not issued before the specified deadline (January 1st, 2016) due to miscommunications. As a result, users of the payment service are subject to potentially experiencing misprocessed payments.

## Summary

Mozilla (and other browser developers alike) are operating in a difficult position in light of these circumstances; the compromise of the adopted policy to reject SHA-1 certificates may lead to further leniency in similar situations. However, the operability of a critical service may be affected by the decision to uphold the deprecation policy.

##Sources:

[1] [news.softpedia.com, "Mozilla Gives a Security Pass to the People it Shouldn't", 2016.](http://news.softpedia.com/news/mozilla-gives-a-security-pass-to-the-people-it-shouldn-t-500986.shtml) [Accessed: 27-Feb-2016].  
[2] [eprint.iacr.org, "Freestart Collision for Full SHA-1", 2016.](https://eprint.iacr.org/2015/967.pdf) [Accessed: 27-Feb-2016].  
[3] [news.softpedia.com, "SHA1 Algorithm Could Become Useless by the End of the Year", 2016.](http://news.softpedia.com/news/sha1-algorithm-could-become-useless-by-the-end-of-the-year-494097.shtml) [Accessed: 27-Feb-2016].  
[4] [en.wikipedia.org, "Collision Attack", 2016.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collision_attack) [Accessed: 27-Feb-2016].  